PLEASE READ THESE TERMS CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THIS SOFTWARE

Copyright (C) 1995-1999 SSH Communications Security Ltd., Finland
<http://www.ssh.fi>.  All rights reserved.  SSH, SSH2 and Secure Shell
are trademarks or registered trademarks of SSH Communications Security Ltd.

THERE IS NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND FOR THIS SOFTWARE. THIS SOFTWARE IS FOR
NON-COMMERCIAL USE ONLY. 

Please contact Data Fellows <http://www.datafellows.com/> for commercial
licensing.

==============================================================

LICENSE AGREEMENT 

This LICENSE is a legal contract between you and SSH Communications
Security Ltd.  This LICENSE grants you certain rights; without a license,
you are not allowed to use, distribute, or modify this software.  BY
USING, DOWNLOADING, DISTRIBUTING, OR MODIFYING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ARE
CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY AND ARE BECOMING A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT.


SSH Communications Security may revise these terms at any time and the
revised terms shall apply to the corresponding versions of the SOFTWARE
distributed with the revised terms.


For the purposes of this license agreement,

SOFTWARE shall mean the SSH 2.0 (Secure Shell) software package in source
code or compiled form, its documentation, as distributed with this license
agreement, and any other derivative work based on it.

LICENSOR shall mean SSH Communications Security Ltd.

LICENSEE shall mean you, the natural or legal person or organization
using, distributing, or modifying the SOFTWARE under this LICENSE.

NON-COMMERCIAL USE shall mean the following uses of the SOFTWARE: 

a) any use done outside and without connection to a commercial
   organization and commercial activity,

b) use related to leisure time activities by private individuals,
   including hobbies, games, etc. provided however that such use is not
   commenced with commercial companies.

Uses not considered as NON-COMMERCIAL USE include, but are not
limited to: 

a) any use where commercial activity is involved and where the use
   in any way, directly or indirectly, aims at monetary or other
   commercial benefit,

b) any use that takes place in commercial, governmental, military,
   or similar organizations and where a salary or similar monetary
   compensation is paid, unless the use can be considered to be 
   EDUCATIONAL USE or is purely for charity.

EDUCATIONAL USE shall include the following uses of the software:

a) use for receiving education (i.e. students) with the assistance of the
   SOFTWARE for activities directly related to studying (homework,
   projects). A monetary or other compensation is allowed to be paid for
   these activities as long as the primary purpose is education, 

b) use for giving education (i.e. teachers), including gathering,
   modifying, and disseminating information,

c) using the SOFTWARE as teaching material, provided however that the
   intellectual property rights of the LICENSOR are not infringed.

d) use for system administration (i.e. administration of computing resources) 
   in educational institutions.

Uses not considered as EDUCATIONAL USE include, but are not limited to:

a) use by students in projects or activities that are funded or otherwise
   compensated by commercial organizations and are not directly related to
   studying,

b) use for research when the primary occupation of the researcher is not
   teaching and little or no contribution is given to teaching activities,

c) administrative tasks in educational institutions (excluding system 
   administration) when administration is the primary purpose for using the 
   software. 

RIGHT TO USE FREE OF CHARGE

The LICENSOR grants the LICENSEE a non-exclusive, non-transferable,
royalty-free, limited right to use the SOFTWARE for NON-COMMERCIAL or
EDUCATIONAL USE in each and every country where the SOFTWARE can be
legally used, provided at least one of the following applies to the
LICENSEE:

EVALUATION. The LICENSEE may use the SOFTWARE for a limited time for the
purpose of evaluating the SOFTWARE.  The evaluation period is limited to
sixty (60) days from the date hereof for each LICENSEE.

INVIDUALS.  Private natural persons may use the SOFTWARE for personal,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE.

EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.  Qualifying non-profit educational institutions
may use the SOFTWARE for educational purposes only, and employees and
registered students of such educational institutions may use the SOFTWARE
on their home computers, for NON-COMMERCIAL USE or EDUCATIONAL USE.
Research laboratories and other research institutions whose primary
purpose is not education are not considered educational institutions for
the purposes of this LICENSE.

CHARITY ORGANIZATIONS. Institutions or funds whose intention is to help
the needy on charity basis and which do not operate for profit,  including
employees and volunteers of such organizations, may use  the SOFTWARE free
of charge for NON-COMMERCIAL USE in activities directly related to the
operations of such an organization.


If none of the above applies to the LICENSEE, commercial licensing of the
SOFTWARE is required before the LICENSEE can use the SOFTWARE. 


RIGHT TO DISTRIBUTE

The LICENSEE may make and distribute verbatim copies of the SOFTWARE,
provided that the LICENSEE complies with all restrictions and obligations
set forth in this LICENSE and that an unmodified copy of this LICENSE is
distributed with the SOFTWARE.

No fee may be charged for distribution of this SOFTWARE under this
LICENSE.  However, as an exception, the SOFTWARE may be put on a floppy or
CD-ROM containing other free software or evaluation software, and a modest
fee may be charged for the floppy or CD-ROM, or for a book or magazine
containing the floppy or CD-ROM.

Bundling the SOFTWARE with a primarily commercial product, other than
distributions of free software specifically excluded above, is not allowed
under this LICENSE, and requires separate commercial licensing.


RIGHT TO MAKE MODIFICATIONS AND COMPILATIONS

The LICENSEE may create derived works (modified versions) based on the
SOFTWARE, and distribute such derived works, provided that

1. any modified versions are conspicuously identified as such, 

2. the derived work does not without permission use the names SSH or
   Secure Shell, or other trademarks of the LICENSOR or its distributors
   or agents, 

3. the derived work is distributed under terms identical or not more
   favorable to this LICENSE and contains a copy of this LICENSE,

4. no copyright notices or other similar intellectual property notices are
   removed, The LICENSEE shall reproduce and apply any copyright or other
   property rights notices included on or embedded in Licensed Software to
   any copies or modifications, in whole or in part, in any form,

5. the modifications do not introduce any security bugs, backdoors, trojan
   horses, or other malicious code, to the best knowledge of the LICENSEE,
   and

6. the LICENSEE gives the LICENSOR a non-exclusive, royalty-free right to
   use, modify, distribute, sublicense and otherwise exploit any such
   modifications as part of other versions of the SOFTWARE and/or in other
   products, without separately identifying the parties whose
   modifications are being used. The LICENSOR shall do its best effort to
   give due credit to any significant contributions, but gives no warranty
   thereof. This clause also applies to any modifications to the SOFTWARE
   (including but not limited to patches, context diffs, etc.) that are
   published in any 0way, including but not limited to mailing lists,
   books or other publications, newsgroups, WWW pages, letters, faxes, or
   e-mail, or otherwise directly or indirectly communicated to SSH
   Communications Security Ltd, even if they are stored and communicated
   separately from the SOFTWARE. BY MODIFYING THE SOFTWARE OR DISTRIBUTING
   SUCH MODIFICATIONS, THE LICENSEE IMPLICITLY GIVES SSH COMMUNICATIONS
   SECURITY LTD THE RIGHTS SPECIFIED HEREIN TO ANY SUCH MODIFICATIONS.


Modified versions of the SOFTWARE complying with the terms set out in this
section may be distributed by the LICENSEE under the same terms and
conditions set forth for the original SOFTWARE.


NO WARRANTY

BECAUSE THE SOFTWARE IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE SOFTWARE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING, THE LICENSOR PROVIDES THE SOFTWARE "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE
OF THE PROGRAM LIES WITH THE LICENSEE. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE
DEFECTIVE, THE LICENSEE ALONE SHALL ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS AGREED TO IN WRITING BY LICENSOR WILL THE LICENSOR BE
LIABLE TO THE LICENSEE OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, INFORMATION, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
OR INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHT OR SIMILAR), EVEN IF
THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.


MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

LICENSOR shall have no obligation to provide maintenance or support for
the SOFTWARE.


ADHERENCE TO LOCAL REGULATIONS REGARDING CRYPTOGRAPHIC SOFTWARE

The SOFTWARE contains cryptographic algorithms and technology.  Some
countries restrict the export, import, or use of such technologies.

The LICENSEE accepts full responsibility for its compliance with any
regulations pertaining to cryptographic technology, including but not
limited to the United States Export Administration Act and the Wassenaar
arrangement.  In no situation shall the LICENSOR be liable for any
violation of such regulations by the LICENSEE.

The LICENSEE shall be fully responsible for obtaining any information
about the required permits and acquiring the necessary permits that may be
required by local or other applicable regulations for using or
distributing the SOFTWARE.


PATENT LICENSES AND INDEMNIFICATION

The LICENSEE shall be responsible for obtaining any patent licenses
required for using the SOFTWARE in any particular country.  The LICENSEE
agrees to indemnify and hold the LICENSOR harmless against any claims or
awards arising out of LICENSEE's use of the SOFTWARE under this LICENSE.


MISCELLANEOUS

No rights are granted to the SOFTWARE except those expressly set forth
herein.  The LICENSEE may not copy, modify, rent, lease, sublicense, or
distribute the SOFTWARE except as expressly provided under this LICENSE.
Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the
SOFTWARE is void, and will automatically terminate LICENSEE's rights under
this LICENSE.

This LICENSE shall not affect in any way any other confidentiality,
licensing, or other agreement between the LICENSEE and the LICENSOR.


TERM AND TERMINATION

This LICENSE is valid until terminated, and will terminate immediately
without notice if the LICENSEE is in breach of any of its terms and
conditions.  The LICENSEE may terminate this LICENSE at any time by
destroying the SOFTWARE and all copies thereof.

Upon termination of this LICENSE, the LICENSEE must destroy all copies of
the SOFTWARE and any derived works thereof.  Terms and conditions
concerning no warranty, limitation of liability, and indemnification of
the LICENSOR shall survive any termination of this LICENSE.  People or
organizations who received copies of the SOFTWARE from LICENSEE under this
LICENSE before termination of the LICENSE shall not have their licenses
terminated, as long as they remain in full compliance.


JURISDICTION

This LICENSE shall be governed by the laws of Finland.

Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by
arbitration in accordance with the arbitration rules of the Finnish
Central Chamber of Commerce in Helsinki. 

The LICENSOR shall, however, have an option, notwithstanding the
arbitration clause above, to initiate legal proceedings based on a breach
of this Agreement in any court having jurisdiction over the LICENSEE.




